[liquid pouring]
- What are you doing?
- Uh, I'm trying
to figure out what to write
in this retirement card for... Esperanza?
Whoever that is.
- What about, "Retirement is like
getting a lifetime achievement award.
The only thing left to do is die"?
MATT:
That's perfect.
Hey, I could write it in Spanish.
You know, my buddies in college
used to call me Tex-Mex
because yo hablo un poquito Spanish.
- I always love hearing your
incredible stories from college, Matt.
Anytime you remember one,
even if I'm sleeping,
wake me up and tell me.
- Wait a second, that's not right.
♪ mariachi music playing ♪
♪
- Ay, que linda, muchas gracias.
[chuckling]
- Um--
VILOMAR:
Sí.
Bueno.
♪ tense music playing ♪
- No.
- Daryl?
♪
- Okay.
♪ theme music playing ♪
♪
♪ classical music playing ♪
[ticking]
[rooster crows]
[speaking Spanish on TV]
[door closes]
[footsteps approaching]
[sighs]
[knock on door]
[door shuts]
[sighs]
[clock ticking]
♪ mariachi music playing ♪
♪
LUIS:
So we can't open for another three weeks?
- That's the best-case scenario.
It takes forever
for the paperwork to go through.
- But don't you know the guy
who works at the zoning office
who handles all this shit?
- That's the problem.
He hates my fucking guts.
[door opens]
- Fuck, man.
- What the fuck?
♪ tense menacing music playing ♪
LUIS:
Aw, hell, nah, dawg.
Somebody washed my 501s?
You're supposed to dry-clean these.
- What terrorist cleaned
my fuckin' underwear?
I jerk off into these
and sell 'em for a hundred dollars a pop.
That is a week's worth
of cum down the drain.
♪
JULIO: Mama!
- What?
- Mama.
[Esperanza screams]
[bell dings]
[clock ticking]
[rooster crows]
[inhales and exhales]
[sighs]
- Remember when you
hit that curb a few weeks ago?
- Okay, but promise me you'll wear these?
Gracias.
[tires screech]
♪ dramatic music playing ♪
♪
[gasps]
[moans weakly]
[sighs]
♪
ESPERANZA:
Señora.
[moaning weakly]
[Esperanza sighs]
[Beverly groans]
[pants, gasps]
♪
Uno, dos, tres.
[Esperanza grunting]
♪
[door hinges creak]
[Esperanza grunting]
♪
Okay.
Gracias. [exhales]
[mumbles]
♪ menacing music plays ♪
♪ gentle ominous music playing ♪
♪
ESPERANZA [muffled]:
Good morning.
Good morning, Señora Eggsorbacon.
- Whoa.
What's going on?
My head hurts.
- Oh, you fall down in the street.
- Oh, no.
What happened?
- You no remember?
- No.
- A big bird, bad bird attack you.
- Oh. My goodness.
- But I save you.
BEVERLY:
Oh.
Well, thank you very much.
Oh. Mm.
Uh-uh.
You are my angel.
Wait, but you're not my cleaning lady.
- Oh... yes, it's me.
You hit head hard, really hard.
[echoing] No worry.
You rest. I clean.
♪
- Oh.
Oh.
♪ gentle brooding music playing ♪
♪
[coughs]
♪ mariachi music playing ♪
♪
- Fresh laundry.
- [chuckles] Little sock bunnies.
[both laughing]
- Boop, boop, boop.
- How adorable.
- You rest now. I go.
- Uh, are you coming back tomorrow?
I don't like being alone in this house.
- Oh... yes.
I come tomorrow.
BEVERLY:
Wonderful.
Before you go,
you take those earrings over there.
It's a gift for saving my life.
[gasps]
Lord knows I don't need 'em anymore.
- They are beautiful.
Thank you, Señora Englandfartson.
Aw.
♪
- Hey, Mom.
ESPERANZA:
Hey. [chuckles]
- ¿Sí?
It's nice to relax for a change, right?
[Esperanza laughs]
MARIA:
Hmm.
ESPERANZA:
¿Qué?
♪
♪ gentle acoustic music playing ♪
- That's my husband,
my late husband, Gregory.
He was an artist.
Gregory used his art
to speak out about important issues.
This one is a commentary
on the prison industrial complex.
And this one promotes health and fitness.
- Really nice paintings.
♪
BEVERLY:
That is Gregory and his best friend Tony.
Tony was a gay, but Gregory didn't care.
He was a real progressive.
Sometimes he and Tony
would even go off together
to the forest camping,
get away from the women.
ESPERANZA:
Is this you?
- Yes, that's me. [chuckles]
It was at one of Gregory's art openings.
It was called Inside Tony.
It was all about Tony's inner life.
- Oh, you're so beautiful.
Like a movie star.
- Oh, goodness,
look at all the makeup I have on.
I haven't used makeup like that for ages.
[chuckles]
♪ C'est tout by Suzy Delair playing ♪
♪
♪ singing in French ♪
[laughing]
Oh, those glasses look
gorgeous on you, Esperanza.
You should wear them all the time.
- Muchas gracias, señora.
- Put some of that rouge on you.
- Me?
- I'm not gonna get dolled up all alone.
That's no fun.
♪
♪ gentle foreboding music playing ♪
♪ suspenseful music playing ♪
♪
♪ music intensifies ♪
[screams]
[gasps]
[Beverly laughs]
♪
[gasps]
Do you believe in ghosts, Esperanza?
- Ghosts?
Yes.
- So do I.
I've always believed
there are ghosts in this house.
♪
- Ghosts here?
- I can feel them.
They're always around.
♪
[knock on door]
[both scream]
[both laughing]
Will you see who it is?
♪ menacing music playing ♪
♪
- What are you doing here?
BEVERLY:
She's the cleaning lady.
- Oh, right.
Of course.
Cleaning lady.
Hey, Gam-Gam.
Gam-Gam, are you alright?
What the hell happened?
- I fell.
I was attacked by a giant bird.
- A bird?
- A big, bad bird.
[imitates eagle squawking]
A eagle.
- An eagle?
Like a bald eagle?
- Yeah, bald eagle, no hair.
- A bald eagle.
I thought those were extinct.
- Only one left and hate your Gam-Gam.
A big, bad, bald bird.
- Whoa. [sighs]
- But I'm fine now
thanks to my angel, Esperanza.
- Esperanza?
- The lady you just met.
MATT:
Oh. Right. Of course.
Muy gracias, Esperanza.
- De nada.
I go on and clean now.
- I'm gonna call Animal Patrol.
They can't just let bald eagles
fly around the city like that.
Are you sure you're okay?
BEVERLY:
I'm not dead yet.
MATT:
I'm gonna go, Gam-Gam.
It was great seeing you.
And, um, I will call Marjorie
and tell her what we talked about.
- Okay, and come again soon.
You're the only grandchild who visits me.
[sighs]
- Oh, I didn't realize comida
was included in your service.
- Yes, señor.
- Oh, oh, Matthew, wait.
Uh, before you go,
take one of your grandfather's paintings.
He would've wanted you to have one.
MATT [mouth full]:
No offense, Gam-Gam, but
I don't think anybody wants
any of Pop-Pop's paintings.
Muy gracias.
♪ bright cheerful music playing ♪
[door opens, closes]
♪
[sighs]
ESPERANZA:
No.
No, no.
- Oh yeah.
[Maria sighs]
♪ gentle foreboding music playing ♪
♪ music intensifies ♪
♪ gentle classical music playing ♪
♪
[rooster crows]
[sighs deeply]
♪
[whirring]
- The casa is looking great.
...bad news.
Malo.
...is gonna be your last week.
Uh, tu último semana.
- I do wrong thing?
MATT:
No, no, no, no, no, no.
It's just we're selling la casa.
...are coming at the end of...
So--
...anymore.
- Mi Gam-Gam is moving
to a, um, retirement home.
Um--
Porque...
Ooh. Boo!
[sighs]
- Uh, I call.
MATT: Okay.
[snaps fingers]
- Buenos Aires to you, too.
[sighs]
[clock ticking]
You're leaving?
[screams]
- Oh, dear Lord.
Oh, yes.
- Because of the ghost?
- I didn't want to upset you, but
this house is full
of spirits.
I can't stay here any longer.
I feel like I'm constantly being watched.
It's horrible.
- But this house so beautiful.
You make the ghost go.
- Oh, I wish I could,
but I don't know how.
I'm going to miss you, Esperanza.
- But I know how.
Yeah.
I can make the ghost go, leave,
so you can stay and I can stay, too.
♪
- What are you gonna do?
Uh, you should be careful
not to upset them
because it's not good
to make ghosts angry.
- Ah, don't be afraid, señora.
I deal with them many times.
I know what to do.
Are there any ghost here now?
♪
- Sí, Esperanza.
I can feel them.
♪ gentle ominous music playing ♪
♪
[voices whispering]
♪ music intensifies ♪
♪ music stops ♪
- Get out of here, motherfuckers!
Son of a bitches!
♪ tango music playing ♪
♪
BEVERLY:
Oh.
The spirits, I don't sense them anymore.
I... I can't believe it.
- This is your house.
You tell the ghost who the boss.
You have problem, you call me.
I ghostbuster.
- Thank you, Esperanza.
You are my guardian angel.
- So we stay?
We stay here?
- Sí, Esperanza.
[knock on door]
[gasps]
♪ menacing music plays ♪
Oh, no, the ghosts
are trying to get back in.
You must have made them angry.
- Stay back.
Stay back!
♪
They're gone.
♪ bright cheerful music playing ♪
♪
[Beverly sighs]
- Wow, how exciting.
♪ mariachi music playing ♪
♪
[line rings]
AUTOMATED RESPONSE [over phone]:
Thank you for calling
Los Angeles County Animal Control.
Leave a message and we'll get back
to you soon as possible.
[line beeps]
MATT [over phone]:
Yeah, hey, Animal Control.
This is Matt Engelbartson
and I got a bone to pick
with you fuckers, okay?
Because my Gam-Gam
is bleeding out her ears right now
because some fuckin' bald eagle
decided to attack her
right in front of her house.
Is this how you run a city?
Is this civilized society?
Because I don't think so.
I don't think we should just have
bald eagles running around the city
doing whatever the hell they like, okay?
My Gam-Gam is 92 years old
and she doesn't deserve
to be treated like this
by some bald fuckin' eagle
that should be extinct.
♪